TIGHT BINDING MODEL
It's a formal way (quantum  mechanical)  to describe the band structure of crystals. We will focus on semiconductors, anyway. $|\Psi \rangle$ describes the wavefunction for an electron in an atom, more precisely, the orbitals. We thus define a stationary Sch equation $\hat H_{at} |\psi \rangle = E_0 |\psi \rangle$ 
We then move from a single isolated atom to a periodic lattice. We thus have to define an atomic radius $r$ ad the interatomic distance $d$. 
rigid spheres model: (see picture 1) 

$d$ depends on the type of chemical bond:
- ionic radius (e.g. NaCl)
- covalent radius (e.g. Si, Ge)
- metallic radius (e.g. metallic Na)
- van der Waals radius

Na case:
 ionic radius$= 154 pm$
metallic radius = $186 pm$  ---> 20 % change!!
In principle the wavefunction $|\psi (x) \rangle$ for an isolated atom can give us the $r$

For Na, Z=11, so the configuration is $Na= (1s)^2(2s)^2(2p)^6(3s)^1$ 

We are interested in the radial part of the $|\psi (x)\rangle$ . We use Bohr radius units: $$a_0= \frac{4 \pi \epsilon_o h^2}{e^2m_e}$$
so the radius becomes $$r \rightarrow \rho = \frac{r}{a_0}$$
See slides now. 
Bohr radius= $a_0=53 pm$
We see that electrons in orbitals 1s,2s,2p are more localised, while 3s orbital has a low probability of being occupied (se the bottom of the slide).
$$\int_0^R |\psi(r)|^2 r^2 dr$$
see 2nd picture

2p,2s are orbitals that contain the valence electrons, which they form the chemical bonds.
Here enters the tight binding model. We switch from $|\psi\rangle$ for an isolated atom to $|\phi \rangle$ for a crystal. Core electrons are not affected a lot. We can write $|\phi \rangle$ as a superposition of many $|\psi \rangle$s + some corrections. In 1D case:
see picture 3
Interaction btw $e^--Ze^-$ . For $d-> \infty$ , we have again the atomic wavefunction
$$|\psi_i \rangle= |\psi(x-x_i) \rangle$$
$|\psi \rangle= |1s \rangle, |2s \rangle, |2p \rangle$ 

see picture 4
Because of Pauli exclusion principle, electrons must be in different energy states. Considering 2 Hydrogen atoms:

see picture 5

LCAO MODEL
we decribe the wavefunction as a lin. comb. of atomic wavefunctions. $$|\phi(x) \rangle = \frac{1}{A} \sum_{i=1}^{N} c_i |\psi(x-x_i) \rangle$$
where $N$ are atomic nodes, A is a normalization factor, $c_i$ are weights.

weights: $\{ c_i\}$ ---> all atoms are identical, so $|c_i|^2=1; \forall i$
$c_j$ is a phase: $c_j= e^{i\phi_j}$ 

LIMIT CASES:
- $c_i = 1, \forall i$ maximally symmetric
- $c_i= (-1)^i, \forall i$ maximally antisymmetric
 $$|\phi_+(x) \rangle= \frac{1}{A} \sum_{i=1}^{N} |\psi(x-x_i)\rangle$$
  $$|\phi_-(x) \rangle= \frac{1}{A} \sum_{i=1}^{N}(-1)^i |\psi(x-x_i)\rangle$$
  The electric potential is: see picture 6
  Hamiltonian for the lattice for a single electron: $$\hat H_{cry}= \hat T+ \hat V{cry}= \frac{\hat p^2}{2m}+ \hat V_{cry}+[\sum_{i=1}^N \hat V_{at}(x-x_i)-\sum_{i=1}^N \hat V_{at}(x-x_i)]$$
  $$=\frac{\hat p^2}{2m}+ \sum^N_{i=1} \hat V_{at}(x-x_i)+[\hat V_{cry}- \sum^N_i\hat V_{at}(x-x_i)]$$
  where the last square braket is seen as a perturbation $\hat V_{pert}$
  while the remaining terms are the same of an isolated atom
see picture 7

$$lim_{d \rightarrow \infty}\hat V_{pert}(x;d)=0$$

to summarize: $$\hat H_{cry}= \hat T+ \sum_i^N \hat V_{at}+ \hat V_{pert}$$
but the electron wavefuntion is not enough to describe the wavefunction for a crystal. $$\hat H_{cry}|\phi\rangle= E_{cry}|\phi\rangle$$
$$=(E_0+ \Delta E) |\phi \rangle$$
where $E_0$ is the unperturbed energy and $\Delta E$ is the term that comes up from the perturbation: $$\Delta E = \int \langle\phi(x)|\hat V_{pert}|\phi(x)\rangle dx$$
which is to be determined, and where $|\phi(x)\rangle$ is not a single function but a class of wavefunctions and where $\frac{\Delta E}{E}<<1$ .